feat: adds Core Principles document (#520)
cloudposse/docs: content/introduction/core-principles.md

---

> title: "Core Principles"

Author: This feels light to me, though it's what we had written down. Let's put at least one or two more items into this doc to make sure it's well rounded.

Reviewer: Agree - but let's just keep plowing through this. We can add more as they come up in office hours. I'll keep updating the Google Doc too. Probably will try to use suggest mode when I'm not on my phone.

Author: Sounds solid 👍

description: "Learn more about the core principles that make up the SweetOps methodology."
---

SweetOps is built on a foundational set of core principles that ensure the methodology is comprehensive and reusable across organizations. To fully understand what SweetOps is and how to utilize it effectively, it's critical to understand these backing principles.

## 100% Open Source

> All of the primary technology that enables SweetOps is Open Sourced by [Cloud Posse](https://cloudposse.com) and the community under Apache 2.0. Using open source licensing is a practical, deliberate strategy. It enables SweetOps to be easily adopted, less risky, and distribution of all tools and IaC is straight forward. It protects all parties to reuse the software and fosters collaboration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of the primary technology that enables SweetOps is Open Sourced by [Cloud Posse](https://cloudposse.com) and the community under Apache 2.0 Open Source Software License. Using open source licensing is a practical, deliberate strategy. It enables SweetOps to be easily adopted by organizations by using a well-understood license that carries less risk than proprietary licenses. With SweetOps, everything is permissively licensed, which makes Infrastructure as Code more straight forward to adopt. It protects all parties to reuse the software and fosters greater collaboration.
```

## Automate Everything

> A important ideal from the beginning has been to ensure that all pieces of the process are automated. This includes everything from AWS account creation to configuring incident response management tooling. Ensuring that all aspects of SweetOps are automated makes processes repeatable, transparent, and reliable without having to depend on quickly outdated documentation (aka WikiOps).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important idea from the beginning has been to ensure that all pieces of the process are automated. This includes everything from AWS account creation to configuring incident response management tooling. Ensuring that all aspects of SweetOps are automated makes processes repeatable, transparent, and reliable without having to depend on quickly outdated documentation (aka WikiOps).
```

## Code should be Small and Composable

> The SweetOps infrastructure as code library, purpose built tools, and reusable catalogs are all crafted to be small, composable, and do only one thing well. This allows SweetOps to **share nothing** and supports mixing and matching reusable code to help build your unique architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SweetOps infrastructure as code library, purpose-built tools, and reusable catalogs are crafted to be small, composable, and do only one thing well. This allows SweetOps to adapt as the technologies evolve, as well as mix and match reusable components to help build your unique architecture.
```

Reviewer: See the [UNIX Philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy)

1. Build modular programs
2. Write readable programs
3. Use composition
4. Separate mechanisms from policy
5. Write simple programs
6. Write small programs

The first six principles are pretty spot on.

Reviewer: Maybe we change this to something like: Embrace the UNIX Philosophy for the Cloud Era

We don't want one tool that does it all. We are the polar opposite to platforms like OpenShift and Rancher which attempt to do everything. We want small tools that do one thing well and then stitch them together to achieve our goals. This allows us to swap in & out tools as better ones come along.

Author: Will use some of this language + the header locally instead of via batch. One note, I'm trying to avoid words like "component" since that is one of the main structures within SweetOps. The more we can avoid readers misconstruing those words the better.

Author: @osterman updated to mash the two together. Let me know your thoughts.

## YAML Configuration Drives As Much As Possible

> SweetOps has adopted YAML as its configuration language of choice. YAML is a portable, well understood configuration format that is widely known and accepted within the DevOps community. It easily used in any language and has many advantages over using configuration formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SweetOps has adopted YAML as its configuration syntax of choice. YAML is a portable, well-understood configuration format that is widely known and accepted within the DevOps community. It easily used in any language and has many advantages over using configuration formats.
```

> Particularly of note is the comparison of YAML to Terraform's tfvar files as it's not possible to load tfvar files from remote locations, do interpolations, or control which files we want to load. YAML supports all of these shortcomings while also supporting [anchors](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/yaml_techniques/#yaml-anchors) and allowing us the ability to define our own behaviors like imports and inheritance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Particularly of note is the comparison of YAML to Terraform's `.tfvar` files which are a form of HCL. With `.tfvar` files it is not possible to load them from remote locations, do interpolations, or control which files we want to load and when to load them. Using YAML, we're able to address all of these shortcomings while also supporting [anchors](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/yaml_techniques/#yaml-anchors) and permits us to define our own behaviors like imports and inheritance.
```

## Embrace the UNIX Philosophy for the Cloud Era

The SweetOps infrastructure as code library, purpose built tools, and reusable catalogs are all crafted to follow the [UNIX Philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy); they're intended to be small, simple, readable, and modular in nature which encourages composition.

SweetOps never intends to provide one tool that does it all. It is the polar opposite of platforms like OpenShift and Rancher which attempt to do everything. Instead, SweetOps provides small tools that do one thing well and then stitch them together to achieve the best results. This enables SweetOps to swap in & out tools as better ones come along.

## YAML Configuration Drives As Much As Possible

SweetOps has adopted YAML as its configuration syntax of choice. YAML is a portable, well-understood configuration format that is widely known and accepted within the DevOps community. It easily used in any language and has many advantages over using configuration formats.

> Particularly of note is the comparison of YAML to Terraform's `.tfvar` files which are a form of HCL. With `.tfvar` files it is not possible to load them from remote locations (e.g. over `http://`), do interpolations, or control which files we want to load and when to load them. On the other hand, using YAML, we're able to address all of these shortcomings while also supporting [anchors](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/yaml_techniques/#yaml-anchors) and permits us to define additional behaviors like imports and inheritance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Particularly of note is the comparison of YAML to Terraform's `.tfvar` files which are a form of HCL. With `.tfvar` files it is not possible to load them from remote locations (e.g. over `https://`), do interpolations, or control which files we want to load and when to load them. On the other hand, using YAML, we're able to address all of these shortcomings while also supporting [anchors](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/yaml_techniques/#yaml-anchors) and permits us to define additional behaviors like imports and inheritance.
```
